introduction - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i7YJesoeWFI&list=PLLYW3zEOaqlLShAk9pd4FQ34KOpY7EJAq

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o4QG_kqYvHk

interview  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lynyebKwPhw -- important -- troubleshosoting

https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/devops-tutorial/devops-interview-questions

Name three important DevOps KPIs.
The three important KPIs are as follows:

Meantime to failure recovery - This is the average time taken to recover from a failure.
Deployment frequency - The frequency in which the deployment occurs. 
Percentage of failed deployments - The number of times the deployment fails.

What Is a Grafana Dashboard? A Grafana dashboard supports multiple panels in a single grid. You can visualize results from multiple data 
sources simultaneously. It is a powerful open-source analytical and visualization tool that consists of multiple individual panels 
arranged in a grid.

https://stackify.com/15-metrics-for-devops-success/

docker swarm vs k8s --
docker is not robust  ... k8 is robust
auto scalling not possible					auto scaling possible
rolling update manually						easy rollig update
no built in tool for logging and monitering		promethius , graffana, loki- for logging and monitering

advantage of k8s -- microsevices containers


JFrog Artifactory can be classified as a tool in the "Code Collaboration & Version Control" category, while Sonatype Nexus is grouped under "Java Build Tools".

DevSecOps (short for development, security, and operations) is a development practice that integrates security initiatives at every stage of the software development lifecycle to deliver robust and secure applications.

Disaster recovery drills are used to simulate fault scenarios, formulate recovery plans, and verify whether the plans are applicable and effective. Services are not affected during disaster recovery drills. When a fault 
occurs, you can use the plans to quickly recover services, thus improving service continuity.


multi module project in maven --for dependency management

k8s troubleshooting - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yyVYR3SIMm8

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

So i have around 6yrs of exp in devops, so have come accross different projects and tools from creating cicd from scratch to deplying it to consumer
for scm i hv used git as vcs, since most of our projects were in java i hv used maven as build tool, for cicd we hv used jenkins, also sonarqube for 
quality checks. we had microservice architecture so used docker runtime for containerizing our applications and hv used k8s as orchestration tool.
 we hv used aws as cloud service provider, used terraform as iac tool to deploy n manage infra and ansible for infra configuration.
Coming to roles and responsibility like vcsupport, merge conflicts,branching strategy..creating infra , maintaining servers, uptime of servers,
installing n updating packages, build and release, documentation, rnd new tools, so i hv written jenkins file, monitering pipelines, writtern docker files,
written manifests files, playbooks and shell scripts for automating repetitive tasks..ya thats about me 
