"The cloud" refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers


CloudWatch enables you to monitor your complete stack (applications, infrastructure, and services) and use alarms, logs, and events 
data to take automated actions and reduce mean time to resolution (MTTR). This frees up important resources and allows you to focus 
on building applications and business value.

Latency -- Network latency is the amount of time it takes for a data packet to go from one place to another

Basic Cloudwatch - 5 mins

STS -- > AWS provides AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) as a web service that enables you to request temporary, limited-privilege 
credentials for AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users or for users you authenticate.

Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) lets you send, store, and receive messages between software components at any volume, without losing 
messages or requiring other services to be available.

Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) is a web service that makes it easy to set up, operate, and send notifications from the 
cloud.

P agent -- used to connect to private ip without saving the pem file in public server.

IOPS, IOPS is a count of the read/write operations per second, but throughput is the actual measurement of read/write bits per second that 
are transferred over a network

ssd -- solid state drive

A burstable instance is a virtual machine (VM) instance that provides a baseline level of CPU performance with the ability to burst to a 
higher level to support occasional spikes in usage.

fargate --https://containersonaws.com/introduction/ec2-or-aws-fargate/       https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/aws-fargate/

https://toolbox.iskysoft.com/data-recovery-tips/ext4-vs-xfs-vs-ext3-vs-btrfs-vs-zfs.html

API architecture refers to the process of developing a software interface that exposes backend data and application functionality for 
use in new applications. With an API-first architecture, you can create ecosystems of applications that are modular and reusable — 
which is ideal for microservices

Load balancer is a AWS service which uniformly distributes network traffic and workloads among multiple servers or cluster of servers.
Load balancer increases the availability and fault tolerance of an application

Block storage is the oldest and simplest form of data storage. Block storage stores data in fixed-sized chunks called — you guessed it — 
‘blocks’.  there is no metadata associated with blocks
Compared to block storage, object storage is much newer. With object storage, data is bundled with customizable metadata tags and a 
unique identifier to form objects. Objects are stored in a flat address space and there is no limit to the number of objects stored, 
making it much easier to scale out.

What Is the OSI Model. The Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model describes seven layers that computer systems use to communicate 
over a network. It was the first standard model for network communications, adopted by all major computer and telecommunication 
companies in the early 1980s.

Amazon API Gateway is an AWS service for creating, publishing, maintaining, monitoring, and securing REST, HTTP, and WebSocket APIs at 
any scale. API developers can create APIs that access AWS or other web services, as well as data stored in the AWS Cloud 
API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface, which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each 
other.

There are multiple Routing Policies facilitated. -- https://crishantha.medium.com/aws-route-53-and-routing-policies-b7dc67e74516
Simple Routing Policy
Fail-over Routing Policy
Weighted Routing Policy
Latency Routing Policy
Geo-location Routing Policy
Multivalue Routing Policy

AWS is a secure cloud sevices providing platform which provides different services based on compute power, storage, database, 
content delivery, monitering etc
Domains :
Compute - EC2, EBS, Lambda
Storage - S3 , EfS , glacier
network - vpc, route 53, cloud front
monitering - cloud watch , cloud formation, lbs
security - iam
database - rds, redshift
application - sns, email, sqs
devops - codepipeline, code commit, code build 

Lambda is a serverless compute service where devlopers doesnt have to worry about which type of aws resources they need to set up, 
they can just test their code on the go.

The following are the limitations of Amazon RDS:
Patching causes downtime.
It doesn’t support scale-out for the write workloads.
The user has to perform some administrative tasks.
A downtime is needed to perform scaling operations.
There is no guarantee for zero data loss.
It doesn’t support automated compression management

AWS CloudFormation is a service that helps you model and set up your AWS resources so that you can spend less time managing those 
resources and more time focusing on your applications that run in AWS. You create a template that describes all the AWS resources 
that you want (like Amazon EC2 instances or Amazon RDS DB instances), and CloudFormation takes care of provisioning and configuring 
those resources for you

A relational database is structured, meaning the data is organized in tables. Many times, the data within these tables have 
relationships with one another, or dependencies. A non relational database is document-oriented, meaning, all information gets 
stored in more of a laundry list order
example for non relational database - mongodb, cassandra, hbase , neo4, dynamodb

All the NLB cares about is forwarding the incoming TCP or UDP connection to a target. The NLB does not inspect an incoming HTTP request, 
for example. Therefore, the NLB has much less work to do than an ALB. As a result, the NLB needs significantly less time to forward 
an incoming request

Network Load Balancer (NLB)
This is the distribution of traffic based on network variables, such as IP address and destination ports. It is layer 4 (TCP) and 
below and is not designed to take into consideration anything at the application layer such as content type, cookie data, custom 
headers, user location, or the application behavior. It is context-less, caring only about the network-layer information contained 
within the packets it is directing this way and that.
https://medium.com/awesome-cloud/aws-difference-between-application-load-balancer-and-network-load-balancer-cb8b6cd296a4

OSI model -- 7 layers -- What Is the OSI Model. The Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model describes seven layers that computer 
systems use to communicate over a network.

API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface, which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to 
each other.

Launch Configuration in Auto scaling -- Ami, Ebs, roles, private key , sg

AWS WAF is a web application firewall that helps protect apps and APIs against bots and exploits that consume resources, skew metrics, 
or cause downtime

Amazon API Gateway is a fully managed service that makes it easy for developers to create, publish, maintain, monitor, and secure APIs 
at any scale. APIs act as the "front door" for applications to access data, business logic, or functionality from your backend services.

In Lambda, concurrency is the number of requests your function can handle at the same time. There are two types of concurrency controls 
available:
Reserved concurrency – Reserved concurrency guarantees the maximum number of concurrent instances for the function. When a function has 
reserved concurrency, no other function can use that concurrency. There is no charge for configuring reserved concurrency for a function.

Provisioned concurrency – Provisioned concurrency initializes a requested number of execution environments so that they are prepared 
to respond immediately to your function's invocations. Note that configuring provisioned concurrency incurs charges to your AWS account.

Lamda tutorials : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QwrseYLwNM&list=PL5KTLzN85O4KO0qEeUVvwTTcHFsdE6Dhx&index=8

A Lambda layer is an archive containing additional code, such as libraries, dependencies, or even custom runtimes. When you 
include a layer in a function, the contents are extracted to the /opt directory in the execution environment

Three components comprise AWS Lambda:
A function. This is the actual code that performs the task.
A configuration. This specifies how your function is executed.
An event source (optional). This is the event that triggers the function. You can trigger with several AWS services or a third-party 
service.

Amazon Comprehend is a natural-language processing (NLP) service that uses machine learning to uncover valuable insights and 
connections in text.

The first time you call a function takes a bit more time to execute and respond. Any subsequent iteration with the same function 
will be quite faster than the first one. So we call the very first iteration with a function a “cold start”. Any further request will 
be handled by an already wrapped function inside a running container, so the function will have a “warm start”.

Both the Edge Locations (EL) and Availability Zones (AZ) are AWS Data Centers, but EL are primarily used for caching of the data to 
provide better user experience with low latency, the AZ are used for hosting servers, websites, applications, softwares, Big Data 
processing, analytics and a wide variety of use cases

Regional Edge Caches are located between origin web servers and global edge locations and have a larger cache


Amazon Cognito lets you easily add user sign-up and authentication to your mobile and web apps. Amazon Cognito also enables you to 
authenticate users through an external identity provider and provides temporary security credentials to access your app's backend 
resources in AWS or any service behind Amazon API Gateway

By using an Elastic IP address, you can mask the failure of an instance or software by rapidly remapping the address to another 
instance in your account. 

Aws xray is a distributed tracing system /performance monitering system  --- helps developers analyze n debug applications 
using microservice architecture

Microservices is an architectural and organisational approach to software development where software is composed of small 
independent services which communicate over well defined api's

Amazon API Gateway is an AWS service for creating, publishing, maintaining, monitoring, and securing REST, HTTP, and 
WebSocket APIs at any scale. API developers can create APIs that access AWS or other web services, as well as data stored in the AWS Cloud 
The API endpoint type can be edge-optimized, regional, or private, depending on where the majority of your API traffic originates from.

You can use Route 53 to perform three main functions in any combination: domain registration, DNS routing, and health checking. Your
 website needs a name, such as example.com. Route 53 lets you register a name for your website or web application, known as a domain name.
DNS service provided by AWS named AWS Route 53 is one of the most well-known, reliable, and cost-effective services for managing and maintaining domains
What is a hosted zone in Route 53?  -- https://intellipaat.com/blog/what-is-aws-route53/#no9
A hosted zone is an Amazon Route 53 concept. A hosted zone is analogous to a traditional DNS zone file; it represents a collection of 
records that can be managed together, belonging to a single parent domain name. All resource record sets within a hosted zone must 
have the hosted zone's domain name as a suffix.


AWS CloudFormation is a service that helps you model and set up your AWS resources so that you can spend less time managing those resources


A Certification for Health Delivery System Case Management and Transitions of Care Professionals. The ACM Certification was created 
by ACMA in 2005, and is designed specifically for health delivery system and transitions of care (TOC) case management professionals.


An MX record specifies the names of your mail servers and, if you have two or more mail servers, the priority order. Each value for 
an MX record contains two values, priority and domain name. An integer that represents the priority for an email server.


Routing Policy  --> Multivalue answer routing distributes DNS responses across multiple IP addresses. If a web server becomes unavailable 
after a resolver caches a response, a client can try up to eight other IP addresses from the response to avoid downtime


An NS record (or nameserver record) is a DNS record that contains the name of the authoritative name server within a domain or DNS zone. 
When a client queries for an IP address, it can find the IP address of their intended destination from an NS record via a DNS lookup.
The NS records and A records are both used to provide DNS services. The difference between them is that the former define the servers 
that provide DNS services for a domain name while the A records translate hostnames (such as www, FTP, mail) into IP addresses.

The DNS 'start of authority' (SOA) record stores important information about a domain or zone such as the email address of the 
administrator, when the domain was last updated, and how long the server should wait between refreshes. All DNS zones need an 
SOA record in order to conform to IETF standards.

An MX record specifies the names of your mail servers and, if you have two or more mail servers, the priority order. Each value for 
an MX record contains two values, priority and domain name. An integer that represents the priority for an email server.
A mail exchanger record (MX record) is a configuration that specifies which mail servers can accept email that's sent to your domain. 
To have Amazon SES manage your incoming email, you need to add an MX record to your domain's DNS configuration.

In Route53, a hosted zone is a container for managing the DNS records on a domain that uses Route53 as its DNS provider. 
Route53 provides some features that other DNS providers may not have, such as the ability to use Alias records for AWS resources, 
and configuring a private hosted zone for use with Amazon VPC.

You are initially limited to launching 20 Amazon EC2 instances at any one time and a maximum VPC size of /16 (65,536 IPs).

https://aws.amazon.com/vpc/faqs/#:~:text=How%20many%20subnets%20can%20I,case%20at%20the%20support%20center.

VPC flow logs is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/concepts.html

Route 53 - ELB - ACM  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JQP96EjRM98

Create(register) a domain name in Route 53 --> create a hosted zone with that domain name --> Copy the NS records(4) to the domain registered -->  


An SSL certificate is a bit of code on your web server that provides security for online communications. When a web browser contacts your 
secured website, the SSL certificate enables an encrypted connection. It's kind of like sealing a letter in an envelope before sending it 
through the mail. Why you need an SSL certificate. Websites need SSL certificates to keep user data secure, verify ownership of the website, 
prevent attackers from creating a fake version of the site, and convey trust to users.
HTTPS and SSL are similar things but not the same. HTTPS basically a standard Internet protocol that makes the online data to be encrypted and
is a more advanced and secure version of the HTTP protocol. SSL is a part of the HTTPS protocol that performs the encryption of the data

An SSL/TLS certificate is a digital object that allows systems to verify the identity & subsequently establish an encrypted network 
connection to another system using the Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS) protocol.
Transport Layer Security (TLS) is the successor protocol to SSL. TLS is an improved version of SSL. It works in much the same way as the 
SSL, using encryption to protect the transfer of data and information. The two terms are often used interchangeably in the industry 
although SSL is still widely used.

A precursor to SSL/TLS handshake is the TCP handshake. An SSL/TLS handshake takes place only after a TCP connection has been opened. 
SSL handshakes are nothing but a series of datagrams being exchanged and certain protocols agreed on to ensure the rest of the 
communication is secure

The handshake protocol uses the public key infrastructure (PKI) and establishes a shared symmetric key between the parties to ensure 
confidentiality and integrity of the communicated data.

A TLS handshake is the process that kicks off a communication session that uses TLS. During a TLS handshake, the two communicating sides 
exchange messages to acknowledge each other, verify each other, establish the cryptographic algorithms they will use, and agree on session keys

What Is an SSL/TLS Handshake? An SSL/TLS handshake is a negotiation between two parties on a network – such as a browser and web server – 
to establish the details of their connection.


An endpoint provides connection, data store type, and location information about your data store. AWS Database Migration Service uses 
this information to connect to a data store and migrate data from a source endpoint to a target endpoint.

An endpoint is a component of an API, while an API is a set of rules that allow two applications to share resources. Endpoints are the locations 
of the resources, and the API uses endpoint URLs to retrieve the requested resources

Endpoints are virtual devices that are horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC components. VPC endpoints allow 
communication between instances in your VPC and services, without imposing availability risks or bandwidth constraints on your network 
traffic

Stickiness is a term that is used to describe the functionality of a load balancer to repeatedly route traffic from a client to a 
single destination, instead of balancing the traffic across multiple destinations.
By default, an Application Load Balancer routes each request independently to a registered target based on the chosen load-balancing 
algorithm. However, you can use the sticky session feature (also known as session affinity) to enable the load balancer to bind a user's 
session to a specific target. This ensures that all requests from the user during the session are sent to the same target. 
This feature is useful for servers that maintain state information in order to provide a continuous experience to clients. 
To use sticky sessions, the client must support cookies.
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/sticky-sessions.html

To mount and create file system for new ebs :
df -h 
lsblk
file -s /dev/xvdf
mkfs -t xfs /dev/xvdf
file -s /dev/xvdf
create bakup directory
mount /dev/xvdf /bakup
umount /bakup
df -h
lsblk


Mount efs to ec2:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nfs-common
mkdir efs
copy nfs command from efs attach page
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHVthx8lG4g

aws s3 sync <sourcepath> <s3path>  --> to copy from local to s3
aws s3 sync <sourcebucket> <destination bucket>  --> to copy from one s3 bucket to anaother

application orchestration  -- SNS, SQS, AWS STEP FUNCTION
Analytics ,BIGDATA, MACHINE LEARNING   --->> AWS Athena, AWS EMR

There are a variety of load balancing algorithms: Weighted Round Robin, Random, Source IP, URL, Least Connections, Least Traffic, Least Latency. Given the shortcoming in Round Robin, you can consider trying other choices. One choice you may consider is: Least Connections algorithm. As per this algorithm, the node which has the least number of connections will get the next request. So, as per our earlier example, when 100 new users start to use the application, all new user requests will be sent to node-C. Thus, load will be equally distributed among all nodes.

AWS Organizations
Central management for multiple AWS accounts

Service control policies (SCPs) are a type of organization policy that you can use to manage permissions in your organization. SCPs offer central control over the maximum available permissions for all accounts in your organization.

IAM architecture - 3 groups - dev, devops, monitering - mfa enabled

Even if a Principal is allowed to perform a certain action (granted through IAM Policies), an attached SCP will override that capability if it enforces a Deny on that action. SCP takes precedence over IAM Policies. SCPs can be applied to the root of an organization or to individual accounts in an OU.

Lamda real life example : Lamda used for automation
Many ec2 server present  ...among them few are sitting idle ... so we created a python script to find idle servers based on cpu utilization durng weekend ... only production servers need to be running....dev servers need to be stopped...we used cron jobs for this..we wrote pythone script put it in lamda function triggered with cronjob.


high Availability - auto scaling - details req: ami , sg, ports,secrets,volumes,ebs, minimum instance, max instance, 

To convert t2 to t3
ec2 modify-instance-attribute --instance-id INSTANCE_ID --ena-support

AES-256 is the technology we use to encrypt data in AWS, including Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) server-side encryption.